prince271004@gmail.com

Git & GitHub :
Git and GitHub are not the same thing they are connected but completely different.
Git = coffee
GitHub = coffee shop where coffee served.


What is git ?
Git is a powerful tool that constantly keeps track of every change you make to your files.

24*7: 
What changed?
When changed?
Who changed?
Where changed?

What kind of files we are talking about ?
Almost any kind JS, PHP, etc., which line wad edited when it was done and by whom

Git saves different version of the file .If you make changes in the existing version new version is made and you doesn't want to lost the older version then git come to rescue .It lets you multiple version of your file effortlessly & you can rollback to any previous version in just a moment.
Git is most commonly used to coding project, we can use git to keep track of changes of and maintain different version of any file.
This is means you don't have to worry about loosing file.


Real life example : Let's suppose you are working on a project you have spent hours on writing code client loves it and everything is going great and later client ask for update but after few days client said older version was better, now you are in trouble you have overridden the code now hot to get in back we can use git that's why git is known as VCS

It was developed by "Linus Torvalds"

Difference between Git and GitHub?
Git : It is a tool that runs locally on your computer, It tracks all the changes you make to your file and keeps everything organized.


Imagine you and your teammate are working on a same project you are working on your own computer and your teammate is working on another PC that means you both have the different version of the same project and if you team has more members there will be more version each save separately version on there own machine that's exactly where GitHub comes in when the project is completed you will combine everyone's work at single place to merge all those changes together for that you need central 
Everyone can see, edit and share update at single place.

Git is majorly divided into two parts:
1. Local: Refers to your own computer, where you do all your work, this is where your file, code every change you made is stored.
2. Remote: It lives in cloud, push or upload your local work. 

How local part works?
1. In your computer the folder where you working on your project is known as working directory, this is where all the actions happened 
->you write code.
->create new files.
->modify existing ones.
when you feel alright this version looks good, then you save the changes.
Now we move our work to stage
2. Stage: When we finish our work at working directory & changes can move to next step. It is the second phase of git workflow.
3. Local Repository: In 3rd phase we take the staged file and send it to local repository
*You can think of the local repo as the temporary area where files sit between working directory and final repository save.
In commit permanently save changes to our local repository.

What is repository?
A repository is a place where all the versions of your files and their complete change history are stored.
In case of local repo you have a specific folder
for remote we have GitHub
Nothing has been sent to cloud yet.We upload to cloud only when we want to share the code with others, access it from another computer, and keep it safely backed up.
Then we push our local repo to remote repo in other words we upload to GitHub.


Now make folder name git-demo
inside it make one.txt, two.txt and new folder inside it make three.txt then do 
git init it will Initialized the git repo
.git hidden folder will be created will responsible for tracking changes.

Now make a remote repo using GitHub and inside that make 2 files and clone that repo to system.

git status: Tells user abt file whether it is untracked, modified or not
"What changes have been made in our working directory"

The process of moving changes form working directory to the staging area is known as adding
we have command:

git add filename {particular file added}
git add * {All files added}


I want to go back to my previous state, i.e. remove everything from stagging area and comes back to working directory.

git reset
then, 
git status : you will notice everything as earlier

git add --all    Stage every single change 
git add -A      across the entire project

git add .       Stage the changes within the 
                current directory you're in.



git add *        Stage only new or modified file
                 not deleted ones

git add one.txt  Stage only one file

git add *.txt  Stage all .txt files except
               deleted files


SAVE CHANGES FROM STAGING TO LOCAL

git commit -m "I hv made some commit"

warning:
	Please tell me who you are

Run: 
git config --global user.email "your@example.com"
git config --global user.name "Your Name"

Verify config:
	git config --list

If you want to config locally
git config --local user.email "your@example.com"

You can rollback prev state if needed
	git reset HEAD~
	then,
	git status

Instead of deleting the file and doing git add .
we can simple write git rm four.txt
this will delete the file and move to stage part   

Normal "git reset" only bring back the changes not the file

If you want to restore everything changes and the deleted files
git reset --hard

forcefully deleted git rm -f four.txt
git rm --cached four.txt 

--force Completely deleted the file
--cached Only remote it from staging

if you want to remove folder and inside its file
use 
git rm -r <folder>    here r means recursive
                      it will remove file recursively

if we forgot to put -r it will only delete the folder name


VIEW COMMIT

git log - to see all the commit
git log --oneline short form commit 


Branching: Instead of making changes directly in the main branch we create a separate branch where we commit all the changes once everything is stable we merge to our main branch 
This ensure you main project is stayed safe

*Branching in git provide a secure and organized intermediate step that allows you to review, test & manage changes before merging to main code.

Merging: Combining the changes from two branches into one
In git we can create multiple branches work on each of them separately after everything is final we can merge all of them

To see branch name:
git branch 

Create a new branch
git branch development

When we create the new branch it takes the exact state of branch we are on.

switch: git checkout development


git merge main -m "Merging main into development"
git merge development -m "Merging development into main"



Merge Conflicts: It happens when the same part of the same file has been changed differently in two branches

for ex. if you update one.txt in main branch 
and some other update one.txt in other branch 

git won't know which version to keep in such cases
it flag the file as conflict and we resolve manually which changes to keep 

Move from one version to other
git log
or git log --oneline

then do git checkout Commit_id


How to compare one commit with other?

If you want to see the differences between the current commit and prev commit what lines of code +Added and what line of code -deleted

git diff recentID prevID

When you send the local changes to remote repo then it is known as push

if any changes hv been made in the remote repo that we want to bring it to local repo we use fetch 

when we run git fetch the remote changes are downloaded to the local repo memory

But they won't appeared to the local repo yet to actually update the working directory see those changes in your file you need to run git pull


push: Sending local changes to the remote

fetch: Bringing remote changes into your local repo
       but not merging them yet

pull: Fetching plus merging-so your working directory
      immediately reflects the remote changes


i.e pull = fetch + merge
push to main branch: git push origin main 
git push origin staging


Make directly change on GitHub
we do: git fetch 
       git merge
or, 
       git pull


git restore - helps revert any files back to prev state
to last commit

entire dir
git restore repo_name
git restore .


the diff between git reset and git revert is reset take you back to the specific commit and discard all commit after that point without creating new commit
 

git init
git add README.md
git commit -m "first commit"
git branch -M main
git remote add origin https://github.com/dev-shrey/git-demo.git
git push -u origin main


git remote add origin https://github.com/dev-shrey/git-demo.git
git branch -M main
git push -u origin main


git stash: working on a new branch but is not ready to cmmited and you have to check other 
developer said to check the update and give the feedback 
Basically, 
It temporarily set aside your unfinished work, switch to another branch to do something

1. make changes in main file
2. switch 
	get an error
3. git stash
4. git branch development

change to main 
5. git stash pop






  
 